GSoC 2020
=========

Student: `Ajumal P A`_

- Separate WMFMariadbpy and transferpy to its own repositories.
- Modularize transferpy into three modules and a RemoteExecution:

    * The :any:`Transferer <transferpy.Transferer>` class is responsible for the act on the user arguments and make
      the send/receive possible.
    * The :any:`Firewall <transferpy.Firewall.IptablesFirewall>` class is for open/close the ports in the iptables
      to receive the data by the receiver machines.
    * :any:`MariaDB <transferpy.MariaDB>`
    * The RemoteExecution (now moved to the wmfmariadbpy repo) is the module responsible for the
      execution of command on the remote machines.

       + transfer framework mainly uses the Cumin execution.

- Give proper comments to newly created modules.
- Make `--help` option useful to the user.
- Make documentation_ using Sphinx (This).
- Remove unimportant output of Cumin from the console
- Improve the transferpy logs using the python logging module and also by adding more error messages.
- Use a new parameter verbose in order to understand the user logging level need.
- Detect a free port automatically on the target machine using `netstat` for the `netcat` to listen
  :any:`find_available_port <transferpy.Firewall.BaseFirewall>`.
- Resolve concurrency issues related to the port finding using a lock based approach.
- Make checksum parallel to the actual transfer if the user enables newly added parallel-checksum option.
  (This checksum only detects network integrity issues)
- Make the normal checksum parallel to actual transfer at source machine using multiprocessing.
  (This checksum detects both network and disk related integrity issues)
- Resolve concurrency issue of checksum related temporary file names.
- Benchmark and prove the efficiency of checksum options.
- Enable configuration file option for user arguments.
- Since temporary files are being created by transferpy for locking and checksumming,
  implemented a way to clean them properly at the end of execution even if any
  errors/exception happened in the middle of transfer.
- Make Debian transferpy package.
- Add proper tests and documentation for the new features.
- Release transferpy-1.0 deb package with all the above features.


.. _`Ajumal P A`: https://phabricator.wikimedia.org/p/Privacybatm
.. _documentation: http://doc.wikimedia.org/transferpy
